---
layout: post
title: Apocalypse World Campaign-Building Questions
---

The last time I started a new Apocalypse World game, I did some prep
work by watching Adam Koebel's first Apocalypse World roll20 game,
paying particular attention to how he approached world generation.
In doing so, I took a few notes on how he did world building and
eventually cooked up a big set of questions for kicking off an apocalypse.
They worked well, so I decided to share them there.

- What are the scarcities? (Everybody at the table should name something that's hard to get.)
- Where does the game take place?
  - Is it static? Do you stay put or move around?
  - What's the climate like?
  - What are risks from the world itself, from nature?
- How supernatural is the world? Game of Thrones or Silent Hill?
  - How in-the-know are your characters? How well do the handle the Weird? (See playbooks; this is about baseline in-the-know, not specialized.)
  - How localized is the weirdness?
- How hard is travel?
- What isn't scarce? What could I expect to walk into any hardhold and find if I have the jingle? (Everyone, again, should name something.)
- Did you have lives before the apocalypse? A memory of it?
- How reliable is the narrative?
  - For the world?
  - For your characters?
- Is time linear?
  - For the world?
  - For your characters?
- What about other weirdness?
  - Are there mutants and shit?
  - Is there hardcore futuretech?
  - What is the default weirdness level?
  - Are we going Gene Wolf with the narrative, or should I tell you if what you found is a toaster?
- What survives of the old world?
- Is there anything you want for sure to be in the game we haven't gotten to, or for sure forbid?
- What of the things mentioned should we nail down right now?
